Let's talk a little bit about
what we're gonna build today.
We are going to be building
a full-featured modern web app.
It's gonna have a marketing homepage,
because that's kind of the bedrock of
the Internet,
everything has this no matter what it is.
We're gonna build an e-commerce store,
so we're gonna get products from an API,
we're going to build a shopping cart.
We are going to set up a blog and
add an RSS feed to that blog.
And we're going to set up a newsletter
signup form that will work without
JavaScript.
So we're going to add a little bit of
server side rendering into Astro to show
how that would work if you
want to run it that way.
So how we're gonna build it, we're gonna
make sure that the whole site works
the Javascript disabled with
the exception of the cart, but
we are gonna add a no script fallback for
the cart.
We're going to do
cross-framework state sharing.
So we're gonna set up both Solid and React
in this app as a means of demonstration,
and then we're gonna have state
that gets shared between the two.
So you'll be able to act like
update state in React and
access that changed state in Solid in
a way that still respects the partial
hydration or
the Islands architecture of Astro.
We're gonna write Type-Safe Markdown.
The blog is gonna be using Astro's
content collections, which means that we
can provide a schema and validate that
people are using the allowed fields.
If you've ever worked with a markdown
blog, one of the most challenging pieces
of it is that it tends to kinda run
away from you in terms of frontmatter.
Where some of them have categories,
some of them have tags, some of them add
a special field about whether or not
you should show the newsletters opt-in.
And over time, all those fields
become somewhat meaningless.
So what we'll be able to do is
actually add schema validation.
So you can say, these
are the categories you can choose from.
It's not a it's not
a freeform fill anymore,
it's gonna actually throw an error if
you're not using an allowed category.
We're gonna fetch data from external API,
so we're gonna show how
Astro handles data fetching.
We're going to set up some server-rendered
pages, but only when necessary.
So we're gonna use a feature
that I love about Astro,
which is called hybrid rendering.
Where instead of having to opt all the way
into server rendering, you identify one or
more pages to be server rendered, and
the rest of them are static by default.
So things that you're gonna need
today it are a GitHub account.
You're gonna need git installed locally,
because we're gonna be cloning and
pushing the repos,
Node version 16 or higher.
I didn't use to call this out,
but I've started.
If you're on a work computer,
you are gonna need permission to clone and
run repos on your local computer.
That has been a challenge in the past.
Things that I will be using
that you don't need to use, but
this is what's gonna be on the screen.
I'm gonna use VS Code for
both the terminal and for my code editor.
I'm gonna use the GitHub CLI.
I love the GitHub CLI,
it saves me a ton of time.
If you haven't used it before,
it's definitely worth checking out.
I'm not gonna go into it today,
I'm just gonna use it.
Again, you don't need it that's why
you'll see me typing the gh command in my
terminal, that's what that is.
We're gonna be using Netlify, that's how
we are going to deploy the site today.
You can deploy to whatever
platform you wish, but
this is what I'm gonna demonstrate
at the end of the workshop.
And yeah, just as a note for posterity.
You don't need these,
these are just my preferences.
So assume knowledge,
I'm assuming that everybody here has
some beginner JavaScript capabilities.
You don't need to be a JavaScript pro, but
I am not going to explain
the mechanics of JavaScript.
So if you're not familiar
with JavaScript at all,
there might be some parts
that are a little dense.
Feel free to ask questions,
but yeah, I probably won't be
explaining JavaScript syntax today.
General knowledge of Typescript, we're
not gonna write a lot of TypeScript, but
I will be using Typescript for
autocomplete, so
there will be some points where I'm
including type definition stuff.
The starter repo comes with all
the required types already in it,
so we don't have to write TypeScript.
We're just gonna have them there.
But if you've never seen it before,
it might look a little bit wild.
Again, feel free to ask questions,
but we're not gonna get into the
nitty-gritty of how types work and stuff.
Basics of JSX and components,
not gonna do an intro to React, or Solid,
or Viewer Svelte,
just gonna start using some components.
So if you've never seen those before,
might be a little bit of a wild ride.
Familiarity with Markdown,
if you've ever written a README,
you'll know enough about Markdown.
That's all we're really looking at today.
Basic usage of the command line,
we're gonna be running some commands.
So knowing where your terminal is,
how to execute commands in it,
that's gonna be important.
And a basic understanding of API calls,
we're gonna be running
the Fetch API today.
If you've never used it, it is
a reasonably straightforward API to use.
You don't need to understand
all the ins and outs of it.
But if you've never seen it before, I'm
gonna go a little bit quick over those.
So a quick demo to start, we're gonna
use a starter repo, but I wanna show how
the start-from-scratch experience works
in Astro, because it's just so good.
So let me get a terminal up, and
I'm gonna collapse this down so
that we can see this.
And so the way that you start a new Astro
site is you can run npm create astro.
And what this is gonna do is
shows this little Houston robot,
which is adorable, and
then it asks you for some details.
So it'll auto generate a name
of a project if you want.
And since we're not actually
working in this project today,
you can just hit Enter to continue and
then it lets you choose what you want.
So if it's me,
because I've done this a few times,
I'll start with an empty project.
If you wanna see how the best practices
work, you can choose this one.
And then it starts just kinda
stepping through everything, so
it's gonna install our NPM dependencies.
And it's going to give us
some words of affirmation.
It's going to just kinda be a little
pleasant experience that I really love.
And do I wanna initialize the repository?
Sure, I do, and
then it asked about TypeScript.
So strict is the default, and
then it tells you what to do next.
So we can move into this project and
start it,
and it's gonna open up in localhost 3000,
and this is your Astro site.
So here, you're running, you have a site
installed and running and ready to go.
This is not super novel in
the framework world anymore.
They've all got pretty good
getting started experiences.
To me, thing that sets Astro apart is the
attention to detail with the little robot
saying fun, cute things and the fact that
they are installing your dependencies and
setting up TypeScript.
And just making sure that you're set
up in a way that allows you to quickly
get up and running.
So we're not actually gonna run
off of this site because, again,
the starter repo is effectively this.
It just has also some images and
style sheets that we're gonna use so
that we don't have to
write all those by hand.
And as well as the Markdown files so
that you don't have to write the Markdown.
So next up, let's actually get started.
So we're gonna use the start
branch of this repo here.
So I'm gonna run this command,
In, may open code actually.
So we're going to move into GitHub, and
we're going to gh clone repo,
and then it's gonna
be learnedwithjson and
astro-frontend-masters.
And then I want the start branch, so
I'm doing the double dash to kind of
escape the GitHub CLI, and then I can
add any git commands that I want.
So -b is a branch.
So I can say,
I want the start branch of this repo.
So I am, what did I just do?
I know what I did wrong.
I did these commands backwards.
So github-repo-clone
is what I meant to do.
And that is going to give us our, Site.
>> Alternatively, you could probably
just clone the repo and then see the or
check out the start branch.
>> Yes, yeah, so
if you wanted to get into it like that,
you can also go into
astro-frontend-masters here and
you can grab one of these.
So you can use the SSH or the CLI.
And then once you've got it,
just do a git checkout start and
that will move you to the start branch.
Okay, so we're in this repo now,
and we've got everything.
We're gonna install the dependencies, so
npm i to install, and
then we can npm run dev.
And that, again,
is gonna start on localhost 3000.
I've stripped out the defaults and
all the things that Astro provides so
that we're not having to remove code,
we're just gonna be writing code
Okay, so to actually get running here,
what we're gonna do is create a new page.
So the way that an astro directory
works is we have this source
folder that's got pages in it by default.
You can put anything you want here,
components, layouts, etc.,
we'll step through those as we go.
In the package json, you can see here
that it gives us a handful of commands.
Dev is the one that we're gonna
spend the most time on today, but
later we will be building it.
And I've added a few type packages, but
we'll install everything else
as we go in the starter.
You've got an astro.config,
which right now is just empty.
This comes with the npm create astro,
we'll use this later.
But I'll show you one of the other
reasons I love Astro is that we
won't have to manually touch
this file almost at all,
because they've got this wonderful flow
of adding integrations that just works.
The other things that are worth noting,
the types here,
those are types that we're gonna use.
Again, we're not really
talking about TypeScript,
it's just to make sure that we've
got autocomplete and everything.
Astro as well has some types,
this is supplied by the npm vreate astro.
Public is a place where we can put
anything that we want to be published as
part of the build.
So anything that we put in this
folder will be URL addressable.
So in this case, the the favicon will be
addressable at your site.com/favicon.svg.
And anything we wanna put
in here can go in here.
If you wanna put PDFs up on your website,
you wanna put images, etc.,
you just drop it in here and
it just works.
The source folder is what will actually
be processed as part of the Astro build.
And inside of that,
you can see we've got this, Simple page.
And this is, by default, it's just HTML.
There's nothing special going on here.
The only thing that is different from
plain old HTML is this generator tag,
which is optional.
It's just there so that we can identify
whether or not a site was built using
Astro, which is helpful for adoption for
somebody who wants to snoop a little bit
on your site and learn what technology
you use and all that kind of stuff.
That's all this is really here for.
Otherwise, we're just putting
out a little h1 tag, and
that h1 tag is telling
us what we need to do.